U.S. Forest Service airtanker scandal

The U.S. Forest Service airtanker scandal involved a scheme, officially called the Historical Aircraft Exchange Program, in which the U.S. Forest Service would acquire retired U.S. Air Force C-130A transport aircraft and U.S. Navy P-3 anti-submarine patrol aircraft, ostensibly for use as firefighting airtankers, but which ended up with the planes' ownership being transferred illegally to private companies and the aircraft themselves being used for other purposes or even sold for a profit. The issue resulted in two of the involved principals being sentenced to prison and a number of civil lawsuits.
The scheme was developed in December 1987 by Fred Fuchs, deputy director of fire and aviation, and the private aircraft broker Roy D. Reagan, a cousin of President Ronald Reagan. Reagan acted as a representative of the Hemet Valley Flying Service. Fuchs was eventually given responsibility for coordinating the exchange program for the Forest Service. He did not discuss the plan with the Forest Service's Office of General Counsel. The letter authorizing the program on behalf of the Forest Service stated that it complied with various provisions of the federal regulations, when it did not. In addition, Fuchs provided bills of sale to the contractors, transferring actual ownership of the planes to the companies, in violation of the applicable regulations, as well as the provisions laid down by the GSA. Further, Fuchs told his USFS superiors that the transfer of ownership had been approved by the GSA, when it had not. In the ensuing criminal trial, three Air Force generals testified that they were not aware that the government would be losing title to the aircraft; if they had, they said, they would not have approved the program.
In 1989, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA, the parent department of the Forest Service) began to look at the exchange program, which was quietly terminated in January 1990, after the assistant general counsel of the USDA concluded that the USFS did not have authority to conduct the program.In 1992, the OIG determined that the USFS did not have the authority to make the aircraft exchanges. Federal auditors determined that most of the C-130s given to the contractors were not being used for firefighting, and that the C-119s which were traded in were essentially "junk". Between ten and eleven (depending on the source) of the C-130s were never even converted into airtankers. Department of Agriculture Undersecretary Jim Lyons told the Los Angeles Times that some of the agency's actions were "clearly illegal" and "may have been criminal." On March 3, 1994, the Department of Defense's assistant inspector general for criminal investigative policy and oversight asked the Justice Department (DoJ) to investigate the Forest Service and the program. In 1995, GSA auditors determined that the U.S. had lost money on the deal, based on comparisons of aircraft values.After a 1997 trial in U.S. District Court in Tucson, Arizona which lasted five weeks, both of the scheme's main figures were convicted of the conspiracy charge, but were found "not guilty" on the conversion charge. Fuchs was sentenced to 2 years in prison, while Reagan was sentenced to 2½ years, with both also receiving an additional three years of probation. There were no fines levied. The men began serving their sentences on May 4, 1998.