Oyèrónkẹ́ Oyěwùmí

Oyèrónkẹ́ Oyěwùmí (; born 10 November 1957) is a Nigerian academic, who was a professor of sociology. She has also lectured in the departments of Africana Studies, Women's Gender, and Sexuality Studies at Stony Brook University. Her research interests includes Africa and the West Africa, epistemology, and gender advocacy. She acquired her bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Ibadan, and went on to pursue her graduate degree in sociology at the University of California, Berkeley.
Oyěwùmí is the winner of the African Studies Association's 2021 Distinguished Africanist Award, which honours individuals who have contributed a lifetime of outstanding scholarship in African studies combined with service to the Africanist community.
Oyewumi has a global presence as her scholarship has been read and criticized across the continents, within and outside academia. Her global scholarly reach has brought her both invites for keynote lectures and talk shows across countries of the world: Nigeria, Ghana, Senegal, Mozambique, South Africa, Brazil, Jamaica, United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, Sweden, Spain, Norway and Portugal. Her speaking engagement includes but not limited to, lectures in institutions, to reference just two here, the Freie Universität Berlin, delivered a powerful lecture on decolonizing knowledge, and the Shirley Graham and W.E.B. Du Bois Lecture at Colgate University.
In her contribution to over thirty years of Women Writing African Women's and Gendered Worlds, historian Nwando Achebe identifies Oyèrónkẹ́ Oyěwùmí as one of the Women scholars of West African descent (specifically from Nigeria) whose migration to Europe and North America forms part of the broader "brain drain" phenomenon in African higher education.
In her 1997 monograph, The Invention of Women: Making an African Sense of Western Gender Discourses, she offers a postcolonial feminist critique of Western dominance in African studies. The book won the American Sociological Association's 1998 Distinguished Book Award in the Gender and Sex category.