Arthur L. Conger

Arthur Latham Conger Jr. (January 30, 1872 – February 22, 1951) was an officer in the United States Army, a writer and editor. A veteran of the Spanish–American War, Philippine–American War, Boxer Rebellion, Pancho Villa Expedition, and World War I, he attained the rank of colonel and devised the World War I deception known as the Belfort Ruse. A noted theosophist, he served as president of Theosophical Society Pasadena.
A native of Akron, Ohio, Conger attended Harvard College and the Episcopal Theological Seminary, then worked at the Theosophy Society's main office in New York City. He joined the Army during the Spanish–American War, and served in the Philippines. He continued to serve in the Philippines during the Philippine–American War, and was part of the American contingent that took part in responding to China's Boxer Rebellion. He served on the U.S.-Mexico border during the Pancho Villa Expedition.
During World War I, Conger served as assistant chief of staff for Intelligence (G-2) on the staff of the 2nd Division, and then as a member of the Intelligence directorate (G-2) on the staff of the American Expeditionary Forces headquarters. While on the AEF staff, Conger was the lead planner for a summer 1918 deception, which became known as the Belfort Ruse. This effort to deceive German commanders into allocating forces away from Saint-Mihiel was intended to produce an Allied advantage during an upcoming offensive. At the ensuing Battle of Saint-Mihiel, the Allied numerical superiority produced by Conger's deception surprised the Germans and caused a rapid Allied victory. After this success, Conger was assigned to command the 56th Infantry Brigade, which he led until the end of the war.
After World War I, Conger commanded the 20th Infantry Regiment and served as U.S. military attaché in Berlin, Germany and Bern, Switzerland. He retired in 1928. After leaving the military, Conger renewed his interest in theosophy. In 1945 he was elected president of Theosophical Society Pasadena, and he served until his death. He died in Pasadena, California on February 22, 1951.