Higher education in the Arab world

Higher education in the Arab world is non-compulsory, formal study undertaken after secondary school across the 22 Arab states. Systems vary from country to country. They have developed from early learning centers to contemporary universities and colleges. Scholarship in this sector traces institutional, legal and methodological changes across Arabic contexts. From its origins in ancient centers of learning to the modern institutions shaping intellectual discourse today, the sector has undergone significant transformations throughout history.
The Arab world is also home to one of the oldest universities in the world, The oldest university in the world in continuous operation is the Ez-Zitouna University located in Tunisia, established in 737 AD first as a Madrasa then as a university. Despite the religion's dominance, in Madrasas students could learn about science, philosophy, mathematics, art, and many other subjects. Al-Azhar University was initially established in the tenth century C.E. in Cairo as a center for men to study Islamic law and theology, and now offers many academic disciplines to both male and female students. Histories of higher education in the Arab world trace lines from institutions of the Islamic scholarly tradition in the Islamic Golden Age to nineteenth- and twentieth-century universities shaped by colonial administration and nationalist reform. Aside from al-Azhar, many modern institutions began as colonial or missionary foundations established by European or U.S. sponsors in the early nineteenth century. They were few and largely served urban elites.
Higher education in the region has grown dramatically and has experienced many changes, since its beginnings in the colonial period, and especially since the middle of the twentieth century. In the 21st century, the Arab world's higher education sector faces numerous challenges amid opportunities brought by globalization and technological advancement. Quality assurance, accessibility, relevance, and brain drain are key concerns, prompting stakeholders to engage in dialogue and implement measures for improvement. Though significant differences exist between higher education sectors in each country of the Arab world, some general trends are evident, including navigating the forces of globalization and attempts to increase access and gender equality. Despite significant changes, Arab universities continue to receive relatively poor evaluations from the major global university-ranking systems.