I-dle

I-dle (Korean: 아이들; stylized in all lowercase), formerly known as (G)I-dle ((여자)아이들; (Yeoja)aideul), is a South Korean girl group formed by Cube Entertainment in 2018. The group consists of five members: Miyeon, Minnie, Soyeon, Yuqi, and Shuhua. (G)I-dle was originally a sextet ensemble; member Soojin departed the group on August 14, 2021. They are praised for their musicality, versatility, and for breaking stereotypes as a "self-producing" idol group, known for writing and producing much of their material. Since their debut, they have been described as one of the most successful South Korean girl groups outside of the "big four" record labels.
(G)I-dle debuted with the extended play (EP) I Am and its lead single "Latata" on May 2, 2018. After several moderately successful releases, the group rose to prominence with "Tomboy", the viral lead single of their first studio album I Never Die (2022). The song was a critical and commercial success, peaking at number one on the Circle Digital Chart. Their next single, "Nxde", also topped the chart and made (G)I-dle the only artist to have two songs achieve a perfect all-kill in 2022. It also made them the first act from an independent label to debut on the US Billboard Pop Airplay chart with a non-English song.
(G)I-dle's sixth EP, I Feel (2023), produced the single "Queencard", which marked the group's third consecutive number-one single in South Korea. The album became their first to sell over one million copies in South Korea, and sold two million copies worldwide in 2023, according to the IFPI. In 2024, the group released their second studio album 2 and their seventh EP I Sway, which each sold over one million copies in South Korea. The releases yielded the top-ten singles "Super Lady" and "Klaxon" and the number-one song "Fate", which found success despite not being released as a single domestically. After renewing their contract, the group rebranded to I-dle and released their million-selling eighth EP We Are in 2025.