Dennis Miloseski

Dennis Miloseski is an American product and design executive, entrepreneur, inventor, speaker, and co-founder and executive board member of Palm Ventures Group, Inc. Miloseski studied design at the Art Institute of Pittsburgh and business at Harvard Business School, Executive Education. Born in Detroit, Michigan, Miloseski relocated to the San Francisco Bay Area in 1998 and began his career in the Silicon Valley.
Miloseski was hired by the global internet search company Google based in the San Francisco Bay Area. As an early design and user experience leader at the company, Miloseski joined Google and managed the design teams responsible for launching the end-to-end experiences for products such as Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Reader, Google Docs, and Google Spreadsheets.
Miloseski later led special projects at Google and served as the head of design for confidential platform efforts at Google. During this time, he was a design, research, and user experience leader across YouTube, Google TV, and Chromecast projects. Miloseski was awarded the OC Award by top executives and the exclusive Founder's Award by Larry Page and Sergey Brin for his outstanding contributions to innovation at Google.
Miloseski was recruited to the global consumer electronics maker Samsung Electronics as global vice president, head of studio at Samsung Design America in 2012 where he worked closely with Mobile Electronics CEO J.K. Shin to help usher in a new era of innovation in Samsung's mobile division. Miloseski helped Samsung introduce new category creating products which included mobile smartphones, wearables, audio, and smart home IOT products.
In addition to his responsibilities at Samsung Design America, Miloseski was also the head of Samsung's Mobile Experience Lab (UXCA), focused on innovation and creating software and services for Samsung's mobility product portfolio.
During his time at Samsung, Miloseski met Howard Nuk, an industrial design leader and future co-founder at Palm.
In 2016, Miloseski and Nuk co-founded the San Francisco-based startup Palm Ventures Group Inc where they secured global exclusive rights to the original Palm brand. Miloseski and Nuk also brought on three-time NBA champ, five-time All-Star, the first unanimous MVP basketball star Stephen Curry as a strategic investor and advisor to Palm Ventures Group.
Miloseski is also an investor and advisory board member at Skipify which lets e-commerce customers purchase anything with just one-touch across the web, email, and social media feeds.