List of accolades received by Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 is a 2011 fantasy film directed by David Yates from a screenplay by Steve Kloves. It is the sequel to Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 (2010) as the second of a two-part adaptation of the 2007 novel Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows by J. K. Rowling, and the eighth and final instalment in the Harry Potter film series. The film stars Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Helena Bonham Carter, Robbie Coltrane, Warwick Davis, Ralph Fiennes, Michael Gambon, John Hurt, Jason Isaacs, Gary Oldman, Alan Rickman, Maggie Smith, David Thewlis, and Julie Walters. Its story concludes Harry Potter's (Radcliffe) quest to find and destroy Lord Voldemort's (Fiennes) Horcruxes in order to stop him once and for all.
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 premiered at Trafalgar Square in London on 7 July 2011, and was released in the United Kingdom and the United States on 15 July. Produced on a budget of $250 million, it grossed $1.342 billion, finishing its theatrical run as the highest-grossing film of 2011 and the third-highest-grossing film of all time. On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 96% based on 333 reviews.
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 garnered awards and nominations in various categories with particular recognition for its acting (mainly that of Radcliffe), musical score, production design, and visual effects. It received three nominations at the 84th Academy Awards, including Best Visual Effects. At the 65th British Academy Film Awards, the film was nominated for Best Production Design, Best Sound, and Best Makeup and Hair, and won Best Special Visual Effects. It received four nominations at the 17th Critics' Choice Awards and won two awards. Composer Alexandre Desplat received a nomination for Best Score Soundtrack for Visual Media at the Grammy Awards' 54th ceremony. The film won one of ten nominations at the 38th Saturn Awards. In addition, the National Board of Review selected The Deathly Hallows – Part 2 as one of the top-ten films of 2011.