1883 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1883 Atlantic hurricane season featured only four known tropical cyclones, though three of them (or their extratropical remnants) caused fatalities. Of the four storms, three of them strengthened into hurricanes, while two of those intensified into a major hurricane. However, in the absence of modern satellite and other remote-sensing technologies, only storms that affected populated land areas or encountered ships at sea were recorded, so the actual total could be higher. An exclusion of zero to six tropical cyclones per year between 1851 and 1885 and zero to four per year between 1886 and 1910 has been estimated.
Reanalysis by meteorologists José Fernández-Partagás and Henry F. Diaz in 1996 and the Atlantic hurricane reanalysis project in the early 21st century did not add or remove any systems from the official hurricane database (HURDAT). However, both modified the tracks of tropical cyclones. More recently, climate researcher Michael Chenoweth authored a reanalysis study, published in 2014, which concluded that the 1883 season featured a total of six tropical cyclones. This included the removal of the fourth system and the addition of four previously undocumented storms, for a net gain of three cyclones. Chenoweth also proposed some alterations to the track and intensity of each storm, but these changes have yet to be incorporated into HURDAT.
The season's first system was initially detected over the Atlantic Ocean on August 18 to the east-northeast of the Lesser Antilles. Although the storm never made landfall, it killed at least 80 people over the Grand Banks of Newfoundland before transitioning into an extratropical cyclone on August 27. Later that month, another system did not make landfall as a tropical cyclone. However, the powerful extratropical remnants crossed the British Isles in early September, causing eighteen deaths in England, one in Ireland, and at least one offshore France, due to maritime incidents. The season's third system passed near Martinique and struck the Dominican Republic, the Bahamas, and North Carolina, all at hurricane intensity, resulting in more than $520,000 (1883 USD) in damage and 206 fatalities. The fourth and final cyclone became extratropical about halfway between Bermuda and Nova Scotia on October 24. Overall, the storms of the season collectively killed more than 305 people.